\section{Introduction}

% MRI, the magnetic fields, imaging

Medical resonance imaging, MRI, is a technique used mostly in clinical
imaging to produce 3D images of patients. The technique relies on
several magnetic fields to control and measure the spin property of
atoms in the human body. Measuring every single atom is an infeasable
task and the atoms are therefore grouped into discrete spin packets,
whose net magnetization vector is a representation of the collected
spin of all atoms in the spin packet. This net magnetization is then
measured through an electric signal induced in surrounding coils,
postprocessed and fourier transformed from a k-space image and back
into image space.

% Focus

In this report we will focus on the basics of MRI and simulate the
process. To keep the simulation simple our program will not simulate
the positioning of the net magnetization in preparation for the signal
acquisition. Here we will instead assume that the theory is correct
and analytically position the net magnetization vectors. We will then
proceed with simulation of the signal acquisition and and storing it
in k-space.

% Why GPGPU?

Due to both the parallel nature of the spin packets affected by the
magnetic fields and the signal acquisition being performed identically
multiple times, MRI lends itself perfectly to dataparallel
programming. For this reason we have chosen to implement our simulator
in NVIDIA's Compute Unified Device Architecture, CUDA, and will
explorer how best to utilise the graphics programming unit, GPU.



%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: t
%%% TeX-PDF-mode: t
%%% End:
